Add `regexp/no-potentially-useless-backreference` rule (#136)
ota-meshi/eslint-plugin-regexp: docs/rules/no-potentially-empty-backreference.md

---
pageClass: "rule-details"
sidebarDepth: 0
title: "regexp/no-potentially-empty-backreference"
description: "disallow backreferences that reference a group that might not be matched"
---
# regexp/no-potentially-empty-backreference

> disallow backreferences that reference a group that might not be matched

- :exclamation: <badge text="This rule has not been released yet." vertical="middle" type="error"> ***This rule has not been released yet.*** </badge>

## :book: Rule Details

> If the referenced group of a backreference is not matched because some other
> path leads to the backreference, the backreference will be replaced with the
> empty string. The same will happen if the captured text of the referenced group
> was reset before reaching the backreference.
> 
> This will handle backreferences which will always be replaced with the empty
> string for the above reason. Use [regexp/no-useless-backreference] for that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the referenced group of a backreference is not matched because some other path leads to the backreference, the backreference will trivially accept (e.g. `/(?:(a)|b)\1/`). The same will happen if the captured text of the referenced group was reset before reaching the backreference.

This will not handle backreferences that always trivially accept. Use [regexp/no-useless-backreference] for that.
```
